[Music]
what do blind people actually see most
sighted people imagine that what the
blind see is complete blackness but it's
not that black and white so to speak
there are different degrees and causes
of blindness that affect what blind
people can actually see blind from birth
people who are blind from birth
obviously have never had the ability to
see and it's not really our eyes that
actually see information but the brain
that processes it so if the brain
receives no signals from the eyes to
process a person can see nothing it's
not eternal darkness in front of them
like many of us assume it's just
complete nothingness to imagine what
it's like try closing one eye and
looking around with only your open eye
the closed eye just sees nothing another
way to understand what it feels like is
to answer one question what can you see
with your elbow that's right
not blackness just nothing people who
lost their eyesight becoming totally
blind that is losing light perception
altogether is extremely rare it happens
to those who have lost the connection
between the eyes and the brain this can
happen when the brain or optic nerve is
damaged or when the eyes are removed
people who lost their eyesight
completely say it feels like being in a
cave in total darkness some people who
were born sighted but lost the ability
to see later in life may experience
Charles bonnet syndrome or CBS it's kind
of visual hallucination where the person
sees sparks in different shapes and
colors or flashes of bright light it can
be short bursts or lasts longer
people who experience CBS aren't
mentally ill or brain damaged and they
fully understand that what they see
isn't real and is just a sort of a brain
glitch when a lot of us think of
blindness we only imagine total
blindness but there is something called
functional blindness as well it means
different things in different countries
in the u.s. normal vision is 20/20 and
the higher the second number the worse
the vision
a person was 20/200 vision is considered
to have functional blindness which means
they can see at 20 feet what a person
with normal eyesight can see at 200 feet
it could also mean the person has a
visual field of 20 degrees or less
whereas normal is between sixty and a
hundred degrees there are different
types of functional blindness with
varying levels of severity legally blind
a legally blind person can see people
and large objects but they're out of
focus they can perceive colors or even
see things in focus but only at a
certain distance perhaps only as far as
right in front of their face in some
cases everything they see is blurry and
hazy some people experience a bunch of
specks of light constantly moving and
changing colors legally blind people
describe it as really quick going from
brown to turquoise with flecks of yellow
or green in a matter of seconds able to
perceive light keeping light perception
doesn't help blind people see clearly
but it does help them distinguish
between light and dark day and night
some of them can also tell where the
lights coming from tunnel vision
people with tunnel vision look at the
world kind of like through a narrow tube
hence the name they might see things
pretty clearly but only within a field
of vision less than 10 degrees they
don't see their peripherals at all this
condition is often caused by optic nerve
damage seeing nothingness or specks of
light is what happens to blind people
during the day but what about at night
when it's time to go to bed and have
dreams is it any different then do blind
people see images in their dreams again
it's different for people blind from
birth and those who lost the ability to
see later in life people who have always
been blind dream with their other senses
they can sense odors sounds flavours and
feel things by touch they can feel happy
or scared or whatever emotion comes to
them but images nope they don't see
things in their dreams a person who once
could see and then lost their vision may
see dreams like sighted people do with
bright vivid images legally blind people
can also see images while they're
sleeping a person's health condition and
personal eyesight history affects what
and how well they can see in their
dreams a color blind person for example
won't get a new color range in his sleep
someone whose vision worsened might see
things sharp and clear as they used to
in the past or blurry like they do now
people who wear glasses or contacts can
dream in or out of focus and those who
experience Charles bonnet syndrome
during the day can also have it in their
dreams
in that case they'll see bright flashes
of light even while sleeping scientists
at the University of Copenhagen delved
even further to find out what the blind
see in their dreams it turns out that
around 25% of their dreams are
nightmares they get them four times more
often than sighted people using other
senses
another popular question concerning
people with impairment or loss of vision
is if their other senses get stronger
researchers believe it's true blind
people remember how different objects
smell and often use hearing and touch to
find their way around they discover the
world using those senses and store the
information they get this way for
orientation
anyone who's felt their way around their
house in pitch dark in search of a
candle or flashlight during a power
outage can understand this technique
perceiving light non visually as we
mentioned earlier total loss of light
perception is super rare but it still
happens and it's possible that totally
blind people have their own way of
perceiving light in 1923 Harvard
graduate student Chi Keeler conducted
some research on blind mice although
their eyes lacked certain parts
necessary for vision they still followed
day/night cycles their pupils even
reacted to light scientists went back to
non visual light perception research
eighty years later and found that both
humans and mice have special
photosensitive cells not on the retina
but on the nerves that send signals to
the brain these cells don't take part in
the vision process but they do help
distinguish light from dark if you know
anything else on this topic share your
knowledge in the comments below and if
this video helped you find out something
new give it a like if it gets 50,000
likes we'll share more curious how facts
subscribe to our channel so you won't
miss the important updates we have
coming up stay with us on the bright
side
you